A panic attack is a sudden feeling of intense fear
and anxiety that triggers severe physical reactions
when there is no real danger or apparent cause.
Panic attacks can be very frightening.
During a panic attack,
you might think you're losing control,
having a heart attack or even dying.
Some symptoms are:
Rapid, pounding heart
trouble breathing
chest pain
sweating
feeling tingly or light-headed
tunnel or blurred vision
people also feel terror,
like something really awful is about to happen
Most panic attacks last somewhere
from five minutes to half an hour.
And although panic attacks themselves aren't life-threatening,
they can significantly affect your quality of life.
Sometimes the fear of it happening again can be so great
that a person will change the things they do,
and the way they interact with others
or even how much they go to work or school.
This is what’s known as panic disorder.
Sometimes this becomes so serious that
people stop leaving their home to avoid places
and situations that an attack might happen.
This is called agoraphobia.
Panic attacks don’t have to control your life.
You can take control back.
Deep breathing exercises and therapy
can help you know what to do if one starts
and to learn to control the fear of future attacks.